CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

_This guide is based on the [Bisq contributing guide](https://github.com/bisq-network/bisq/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)._

Anyone is welcome to contribute to @lnp2pbot. If you're looking for somewhere to start contributing, check out the [good first issue](https://github.com/grunch/p2plnbot/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue") list.

## Communication Channels

Most communication about @lnp2pbot happens on the main [Telegram group](https://t.me/lnp2pbotHelp). Discussion about code changes happens in GitHub issues and pull requests.

## Contributor Workflow

All @lnp2pbot contributors submit changes via pull requests. The workflow is as follows:

 - Fork the repository
 - Create a topic branch from the `main` branch
 - Commit patches
 - Squash redundant or unnecessary commits
 - Submit a pull request from your topic branch back to the `main` branch of the main repository
 - Make changes to the pull request if reviewers request them and request a re-review

Pull requests should be focused on a single change. Do not mix, for example, refactorings with a bug fix or implementation of a new feature. This practice makes it easier for fellow contributors to review each pull request.

## Reviewing Pull Requests

@lnp2pbot follows the review workflow established by the Bitcoin Core project. The following is adapted from the [Bitcoin Core contributor documentation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review):

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. Project maintainers take into account the peer review when determining if there is consensus to merge a pull request (remember that discussions may have been spread out over GitHub and Telegram). The following language is used within pull-request comments:

 - `ACK` means "I have tested the code and I agree it should be merged";
 - `NACK` means "I disagree this should be merged", and must be accompanied by sound technical justification. NACKs without accompanying reasoning may be disregarded;
 - `utACK` means "I have not tested the code, but I have reviewed it and it looks OK, I agree it can be merged";
 - `Concept ACK` means "I agree in the general principle of this pull request";
 - `Nit` refers to trivial, often non-blocking issues.

Please note that Pull Requests marked `NACK` and/or GitHub's `Change requested` are closed after 30 days if not addressed.

## Style and Coding Conventions

### Coding standards

We ~~try to~~ use [Airbnb javascript style guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) in order to have a cleaner code.

### Configure Git user name and email metadata

See https://help.github.com/articles/setting-your-username-in-git/ for instructions.

### Write well-formed commit messages

From https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules:

 1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
 2. Limit the subject line to 50 characters (*)
 3. Capitalize the subject line
 4. Do not end the subject line with a period
 5. Use the imperative mood in the subject line
 6. Wrap the body at 72 characters (*)
 7. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how


### Sign your commits with GPG

See https://github.com/blog/2144-gpg-signature-verification for background and
https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-with-gpg/ for instructions.

### Keep the git history clean

It's very important to keep the git history clear, light and easily browsable. This means contributors must make sure their pull requests include only meaningful commits (if they are redundant or were added after a review, they should be removed) and _no merge commits_.

Commit message:

tests: convert to TS (#600)
* tests: convert to TS

Convert tests to Typescript. Update CI workflow to install
types/mocha package used by tests.

* CONTRIBUTING.md: mention TypeScript

Mention using TypeScript in "Coding standards" section and
add guideline on "any" type.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

_This guide is based on the [Bisq contributing guide](https://github.com/bisq-network/bisq/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)._

Anyone is welcome to contribute to @lnp2pbot. If you're looking for somewhere to start contributing, check out the [good first issue](https://github.com/grunch/p2plnbot/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue") list.

## Communication Channels

Most communication about @lnp2pbot happens on the main [Telegram group](https://t.me/lnp2pbotHelp). Discussion about code changes happens in GitHub issues and pull requests.

## Contributor Workflow

All @lnp2pbot contributors submit changes via pull requests. The workflow is as follows:

 - Fork the repository
 - Create a topic branch from the `main` branch
 - Commit patches
 - Squash redundant or unnecessary commits
 - Submit a pull request from your topic branch back to the `main` branch of the main repository
 - Make changes to the pull request if reviewers request them and request a re-review

Pull requests should be focused on a single change. Do not mix, for example, refactorings with a bug fix or implementation of a new feature. This practice makes it easier for fellow contributors to review each pull request.

## Reviewing Pull Requests

@lnp2pbot follows the review workflow established by the Bitcoin Core project. The following is adapted from the [Bitcoin Core contributor documentation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review):

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. Project maintainers take into account the peer review when determining if there is consensus to merge a pull request (remember that discussions may have been spread out over GitHub and Telegram). The following language is used within pull-request comments:

 - `ACK` means "I have tested the code and I agree it should be merged";
 - `NACK` means "I disagree this should be merged", and must be accompanied by sound technical justification. NACKs without accompanying reasoning may be disregarded;
 - `utACK` means "I have not tested the code, but I have reviewed it and it looks OK, I agree it can be merged";
 - `Concept ACK` means "I agree in the general principle of this pull request";
 - `Nit` refers to trivial, often non-blocking issues.

Please note that Pull Requests marked `NACK` and/or GitHub's `Change requested` are closed after 30 days if not addressed.

## Style and Coding Conventions

### Coding standards

We ~~try to~~ use [Airbnb javascript style guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) in order to have a cleaner code.

All new code should be TypeScript. The use of `any` type is discouraged, except in the tests.

### Configure Git user name and email metadata

See https://help.github.com/articles/setting-your-username-in-git/ for instructions.

### Write well-formed commit messages

From https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules:

 1. Separate subject from body with a blank line
 2. Limit the subject line to 50 characters (*)
 3. Capitalize the subject line
 4. Do not end the subject line with a period
 5. Use the imperative mood in the subject line
 6. Wrap the body at 72 characters (*)
 7. Use the body to explain what and why vs. how


### Sign your commits with GPG

See https://github.com/blog/2144-gpg-signature-verification for background and
https://help.github.com/articles/signing-commits-with-gpg/ for instructions.

### Keep the git history clean

It's very important to keep the git history clear, light and easily browsable. This means contributors must make sure their pull requests include only meaningful commits (if they are redundant or were added after a review, they should be removed) and _no merge commits_.
