README.md, before:

![LNp2pBot](logo-600.png)

[![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-telegram-%2326A5E4)](https://t.me/lnp2pbot) [![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen)](./LICENSE)
# LNp2pBot
Telegram bot that allows people to trade using lightning network with other people on telegram, this is an open source project and anyone can create issues, submit a PR, fork it, modify it or create their own bot with the code.

## Try it out!
* Website: [lnp2pbot.com](https://lnp2pbot.com)
* Bot: [@lnp2pBot](https://t.me/lnp2pbot)
* Main channel offers: [@p2plightning](https://t.me/p2plightning)

Wherever you are you can start using the [bot](https://t.me/lnp2pbot), just need to have a telegram account with a username and `/start` the bot.

---

**LNp2pBot** is being developed on nodejs and connects with an LND node, we wanted that the telegram bot be able to receive lightning payments without being custodial, after some thinking we decided to use hold invoices for it, the bot only settle seller invoices when each party is ok with it and right after that moment the bot pays the buyer's invoice.

## Creating a sell order
1. Alice tells to the bot that she wants to sell 5000 sats for **n** fiat amount.
2. The bot publishes a sell order of 5000 sats on the bot channel.
3. Bob accepts the order for 5000 sats sending a new lightning invoice to the bot.
4. The bot send to alice a hold-invoice, Alice has to pay a hold-invoice of 5000 sats to the bot, this invoice is "pending", the money is not accepted or rejected by the bot at that moment.
5. After the bot detects that Alice paid the invoice, the bot puts Alicia in contact with Bob.
6. Bob sends the fiat money to Alice and tells to the bot that the fiat money was sent to Alice.
7. When Alice confirmed that she received the money, the bot settles Alice's initial invoice and pays Bob's invoice.
8. If Alice does not confirm the operation that she received the payment in certain amount of time (initially we set this in two hours but this can be changed), the bot will send all the information to one admin and the admin will solve the issue, before the time expires Bob will be notified that Alice is not responding and Bob can start a dispute.

## Creating a buy order
1. Alice wants to buy 5000 sats.
2. Alice publishes a buy order of 5000 sats with **n** fiat amount, Alice does not have satoshis, but she has fiat.
3. The bot shows the order in the public group.
4. Bob takes the order, the bot sends him a hold-invoice for 5000.
5. Bob pays the invoice.
6. The bot tells Alice that Bob has already made the payment, Alice now have to send an invoice to the bot to receive her satoshis. She can now send the fiat to Bob, after she sent the money she tells to the bot that the fiat was sent.
7. When Bob confirms that he received the fiat, the bot settles Bob's invoice and pays Alice's invoice.
8. If Bob does not confirm the operation that he received the payment in certain amount of time (initially we set this in two hours but this can be changed), the bot will send all the information to one admin and the admin will solve the issue, before the time expires Alice will be notified that Bob is not responding and Alice can start a dispute.

## Cooperative cancel
After a user creates a new order and before another user take it, the user can cancel the order, but in some cases users may need to cancel the order, it shouldn't be unilateral.

Only if both parties cancel cooperatively the order is canceled and seller's funds are returned.

If users have a disagreement on canceling or don't want to go forward they can start a dispute.

## Disputes
Both parties can start a dispute at any moment, after a dispute is started a human will be notified with all the information, this human will contact both parties to evaluate the situation and take a decision.

After a user starts a dispute, both parties will have increased by **1** their own `dispute` field in database and after **2** disputes users will be banned from using the bot.

## Incentive to release funds
A seller that didn't release funds to the buyer can't open or take another order from the bot and probably will be involved in a dispute from the buyer damaging his/her reputation

# Financial Support
**LNp2pBot** is an open source project. We are not a company, we don't do ICOs or dark business, we are just people that wants bring solutions to the people using the best open source money in the world. Our work depends on the financial collaboration of the users.

To financially support further development of **LNp2pBot**, please consider support our project sending bitcoin to lightning address **lnp2pbot@getalby.com**.

# Installation
You will need to create an `.env` file on the root dir, you can use a sample env file called `.env.sample` on the root dir, an easy way of doing this is just to copy the sample file to `.env`.

```
cp .env-sample .env
```

## MongoDB
You will need to have [mongo](https://www.mongodb.com) installed and fill the mongo variables on the .env file, those that stats with `DB_`.

## Telegram
You will need a telegram bot api key (`BOT_TOKEN`), find out more about it [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/).

## Tor service or another proxy
You can route the bot API via Tor service or another proxy if you specify 'SOCKS_PROXY_HOST' parameter in .env. For Ubuntu see [this](https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/how-to-install-and-use-tor-as-proxy-in.html)

## Lightning Network

You will need a lightning network node, for this bot we use [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/).

There are two methods to connect with an LND node:

### Method 1: Setting Variables in the `.env` File

To connect with an LND node we need to set 3 variables in the `.env` file,

1. *LND_CERT_BASE64:* LND node TLS certificate on base64 format, you can get it with `base64 -w0 ~/.lnd/tls.cert` on the LND node.

2. *LND_MACAROON_BASE64:* Macaroon file on base64 format, the macaroon file contains permission for doing actions on the LND node, you can get it with `base64 -w0 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/mainnet/admin.macaroon`.

3. *LND_GRPC_HOST:* IP address or domain name from the LND node and the port separated by colon (`:`), example: `192.168.0.2:10009`.

### Method 2: Copying Files to the Project Root

Instead of setting the `LND_MACAROON_BASE64` and `LND_CERT_BASE64` variables in the `.env` file, you can simply copy the `admin.macaroon` and `tls.cert` files to the root of the project.

Please note that you will still need to define the `LND_GRPC_HOST` in the `.env` file as in Method 1, step 3.

Please choose one of these two methods for your setup.

To install just run:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/lnp2pbot/bot.git lnp2pbot
$ cd lnp2pbot
$ npm install
```
[Here](docs/INSTALL.md#installation) we have a detailed guide for installation and first steps using the bot.
# Running it
```
$ npm start
```
# Testing
```
$ npm test
```
# Documentation
You can find documentation in [english](https://lnp2pbot.com/learn) and [spanish](https://lnp2pbot.com/aprende).

# Contribute

See [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Update README.md (#485)
about disputes, communities, alby address and documentation

README.md, after:

![LNp2pBot](logo-600.png)

[![chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-telegram-%2326A5E4)](https://t.me/lnp2pbot) [![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen)](./LICENSE)
# LNp2pBot
Telegram bot that allows people to trade using lightning network with other people on telegram, this is an open source project and anyone can create issues, submit a PR, fork it, modify it or create their own bot with the code.

## Try it out!
* Website: [lnp2pbot.com](https://lnp2pbot.com)
* Bot: [@lnp2pBot](https://t.me/lnp2pbot)
* Main channel offers: [@p2plightning](https://t.me/p2plightning)

Wherever you are you can start using the [bot](https://t.me/lnp2pbot), just need to have a telegram account with a username and `/start` the bot.

---

**LNp2pBot** is being developed on nodejs and connects with an LND node, we wanted that the telegram bot be able to receive lightning payments without being custodial, after some thinking we decided to use hold invoices for it, the bot only settle seller invoices when each party is ok with it and right after that moment the bot pays the buyer's invoice.

## Creating a sell order
1. Alice tells to the bot that she wants to sell 5000 sats for **n** fiat amount.
2. The bot publishes a sell order of 5000 sats on the bot channel.
3. Bob accepts the order for 5000 sats sending a new lightning invoice to the bot.
4. The bot send to alice a hold-invoice, Alice has to pay a hold-invoice of 5000 sats to the bot, this invoice is "pending", the money is not accepted or rejected by the bot at that moment.
5. After the bot detects that Alice paid the invoice, the bot puts Alicia in contact with Bob.
6. Bob sends the fiat money to Alice and tells to the bot that the fiat money was sent to Alice.
7. When Alice confirmed that she received the money, the bot settles Alice's initial invoice and pays Bob's invoice.
8. If Alice does not confirm the operation that she received the payment in certain amount of time (initially we set this in two hours but this can be changed), the bot will send all the information to one admin and the admin will solve the issue, before the time expires Bob will be notified that Alice is not responding and Bob can start a dispute.

## Creating a buy order
1. Alice wants to buy 5000 sats.
2. Alice publishes a buy order of 5000 sats with **n** fiat amount, Alice does not have satoshis, but she has fiat.
3. The bot shows the order in the public group.
4. Bob takes the order, the bot sends him a hold-invoice for 5000.
5. Bob pays the invoice.
6. The bot tells Alice that Bob has already made the payment, Alice now have to send an invoice to the bot to receive her satoshis. She can now send the fiat to Bob, after she sent the money she tells to the bot that the fiat was sent.
7. When Bob confirms that he received the fiat, the bot settles Bob's invoice and pays Alice's invoice.
8. If Bob does not confirm the operation that he received the payment in certain amount of time (initially we set this in two hours but this can be changed), the bot will send all the information to one admin and the admin will solve the issue, before the time expires Alice will be notified that Bob is not responding and Alice can start a dispute.

## Cooperative cancel
After a user creates a new order and before another user take it, the user can cancel the order, but in some cases users may need to cancel the order, it shouldn't be unilateral.

Only if both parties cancel cooperatively the order is canceled and seller's funds are returned.

If users have a disagreement on canceling or don't want to go forward they can start a dispute.

## Disputes
Both parties can start a dispute at any moment, after a dispute is started a human (aka "solver") will be notified with all the information, this solver will contact both parties to evaluate the situation and take a decision.

After a user starts a dispute, both parties will have increased by **1** their own `dispute` field in database. If during a dispute it is proven that there is a malicious user, the solver can ban that user, and they will no longer be able to use the bot anymore.

## Incentive to release funds
A seller that didn't release funds to the buyer can't open or take another order from the bot and probably will be involved in a dispute from the buyer damaging his/her reputation

## Communities
Anyone who already has or creates a Telegram group can include the [bot](https://t.me/lnp2pbot) inside to facilitate buying and selling bitcoin among its members. The group administrator will earn a commission for transactions conducted within their community, and they can also offer discounts on the fees that the bot charges within their community.

# Financial Support
**LNp2pBot** is an open source project. We are not a company, we don't do ICOs or dark business, we are just people that wants bring solutions to the people using the best open source money in the world. Our work depends on the financial collaboration of the users.

To financially support further development of **LNp2pBot**, please consider support our project sending bitcoin to lightning address **grunch@getalby.com**.

# Installation
You will need to create an `.env` file on the root dir, you can use a sample env file called `.env.sample` on the root dir, an easy way of doing this is just to copy the sample file to `.env`.

```
cp .env-sample .env
```

## MongoDB
You will need to have [mongo](https://www.mongodb.com) installed and fill the mongo variables on the .env file, those that stats with `DB_`.

## Telegram
You will need a telegram bot api key (`BOT_TOKEN`), find out more about it [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/).

## Tor service or another proxy
You can route the bot API via Tor service or another proxy if you specify 'SOCKS_PROXY_HOST' parameter in .env. For Ubuntu see [this](https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/10/how-to-install-and-use-tor-as-proxy-in.html)

## Lightning Network

You will need a lightning network node, for this bot we use [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/).

There are two methods to connect with an LND node:

### Method 1: Setting Variables in the `.env` File

To connect with an LND node we need to set 3 variables in the `.env` file,

1. *LND_CERT_BASE64:* LND node TLS certificate on base64 format, you can get it with `base64 -w0 ~/.lnd/tls.cert` on the LND node.

2. *LND_MACAROON_BASE64:* Macaroon file on base64 format, the macaroon file contains permission for doing actions on the LND node, you can get it with `base64 -w0 ~/.lnd/data/chain/bitcoin/mainnet/admin.macaroon`.

3. *LND_GRPC_HOST:* IP address or domain name from the LND node and the port separated by colon (`:`), example: `192.168.0.2:10009`.

### Method 2: Copying Files to the Project Root

Instead of setting the `LND_MACAROON_BASE64` and `LND_CERT_BASE64` variables in the `.env` file, you can simply copy the `admin.macaroon` and `tls.cert` files to the root of the project.

Please note that you will still need to define the `LND_GRPC_HOST` in the `.env` file as in Method 1, step 3.

Please choose one of these two methods for your setup.

To install just run:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/lnp2pbot/bot.git lnp2pbot
$ cd lnp2pbot
$ npm install
```
[Here](docs/INSTALL.md#installation) we have a detailed guide for installation and first steps using the bot.
# Running it
```
$ npm start
```
# Testing
```
$ npm test
```
# Documentation
You can find documentation in [English](https://lnp2pbot.com/learn), [Spanish](https://lnp2pbot.com/aprende), [Portuguese](https://lnp2pbot.com/aprenda), [French](https://lnp2pbot.com/apprendre) and [Persian](https://lnp2pbot.com/farsi-doc)

# Contribute

See [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).
